# Misinformation Project - Microsoft

## About This Project

The digital world has given rise to news sources from social media platforms. However, the information spread on those platforms contains misinformation -- biased and misleading but not necessarily factually incorrect information that is routinely produced or amplified by mainstream news organizations. The spread of misinformation online can have profound results as it may have potential effects on public opinion, political polarization, and ultimately democratic decision-making. Although neither prevalence nor consumption of misinformation is a direct measure of influence, a proper understanding of misinformation and its effects is important and requires a broader view of the problem. In this project, we propose ambitious collective research to measure the effects of news deserts on the prevalence of misinformation.

## Background
In the era of the Digital Age, social networking sites have become a powerful medium for the spread of information. Compared to true news, misinformation was found to diffuse significantly faster and deeper with the effects of false political news more salient than false news of other categories, such as terrorism and natural disasters (Vosoughi et al., 2018). Study has also identified foreign influence efforts in promoting misinformation online to influence politics in many countries (Martin et al., 2019). In response to the concern of false contents’ influence on society and democratic institutions, many researchers are dedicated to studying misinformation on social media. For example, the Empirical Studies of Conflict project at Princeton University, in collaboration with Microsoft Research, has supported industry from stopping the spread of misinformation by analyzing thousands of false narratives during the pandemic (Thange et al., 2021). Among many factors that relate to fake contents online, the monetization of misinformation is a critical field to investigate.

According to an analysis from NewsGuard, the programmatic advertising revenue for misinformation publishers is estimated to be $1.62 billions per year in the U.S (Skibinski, 2021). While the lucre of the business actively benefits content creators, misinformation passively discredit platforms where advertising is held. Therefore, it is necessary to investigate how monetization works so that policy makers of for-profit platforms can be informed and supported to reduce peoples’ exposure to online misinformation. As discussed by researcher Courchesne, the methods of monetization in misinformation vary from sponsorship, web traffic, merchandise selling and so on (Courchesne, 2021). Although study has revealed potential forms of monetization over false contents, there is a lack of knowledge in the literature regarding how financial gains relate to the spread of misinformation. As a result, there is an urgent need to examine the relationship between various factorsfinancial gains and spread of misinformation in a systematic way.

## Methodologies

In this project, we first started with our exploratory data analysis by building an extractor to explore the possible financial gains within the domains and articles, along wirth discovering the relationships between all the data features using data visualization techniques. From the results of our visualization, we observed the importance of topic information. Therefore we decided to establish models to extract topic information from news article content. We compared the performance of the supervised model and unsupervised model, and evaluated each on data that represent different time periods and news topic trends. 
